README.md, before:

serocalculator
=====================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<!-- badges: start -->
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/UCD-SERG/serocalculator/workflows/R-CMD-check/badge.svg)](https://github.com/UCD-SERG/serocalculator/actions)
<!-- badges: end -->


Antibody levels measured in a cross–sectional population sample can be translated into an estimate of the frequency with which seroconversions (infections) occur in the sampled population. In other words, the presence of many high antibody titers indicates that many individuals likely experienced infection recently and the burden of disease is high in the population, while low titers indicate a low frequency of infections in the sampled population and therefore a lower burden of disease.

The **serocalculator** package was designed to use the longitudinal response characteristics using a set of modeled parameters characterizing the longitudinal response of the selected serum antibodies. Calculating seroincidence estimates using the package requires three inputs: 1) a population-based cross-sectional dataset, 2) the longitudinal antibody response parameters, and 3) parameters for biologic and measurement noise. This is explained in more detail in the [Enteric Fever Example vignette](https://ucd-serg.github.io/serocalculator/articles/enteric_fever_example.html).


## Installing R

The **serocalculator** package is written in R, a free, open-source software program. The end user of this package must have access to a working installation of the R software. We recommend installing [base R](https://cran.r-project.org/) and a Graphical User Interfaces (GUI) for R such as [RStudio](https://posit.co/products/open-source/rstudio/).

If you need to download and install R and/or RStudio, we recommend following the tutorial below from *Hands On Programming in R* by Garrett Grolemund:

**Installing R and RStudio**: https://rstudio-education.github.io/hopr/starting.html

## Installing the Serocalculator Package

The **serocalculator** package must be installed in R before first use. 

```{r eval=FALSE}
install.packages("serocalculator")
```


### Post-installation

Successful installation can be confirmed by loading the package into the RStudio workspace and exploring help files and manuals distributed with the package:

```r{eval=FALSE}
# Load package "seroincidence".
library(serocalculator)

# Show R help for the package.
?serocalculator
```

Additionally, most package details can be found when executing the following commands:

```r{eval=FALSE}
# Show description.
packageDescription("serocalculator")

# Show citation.
citation("serocalculator")
```

### A Note for Windows Users

Windows users will need to install Rtools, which contains a collection of tools for building and employing R packages that are still in development. This can be done either during the  *devtools* package installation, or independently if *devtools* is already installed. 


#### During devtools installation:

When prompted to install additional build tools, select "Yes" and Rtools will be installed. 

![Click Yes to install Rtools along with the *devtools* package][id]

[id]: man/figures/Rtools1.png

#### Independently:

1. Download Rtools from https://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/Rtools/
2. Run the installer

    * During the Rtools installation you may see a window asking you to “Select Additional Tasks”.
    * Do **not** select the box for “Edit the system PATH”. devtools and RStudio should put Rtools on the PATH automatically when it is needed.
    * **Do** select the box for “Save version information to registry”. It should be selected by default.

## Getting Help

If you need assistance or encounter a clear bug, please file an issue with a minimal reproducible example on [GitHub](https://github.com/UCD-SERG/serocalculator/issues). 

Another great resource is **The Epidemiologist R Handbook**, which includes an introductory page on asking for help with R packages via GitHub: https://epirhandbook.com/en/getting-help.html

Commit message:

RE-add development install language

README.md, after:

serocalculator
=====================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<!-- badges: start -->
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/UCD-SERG/serocalculator/workflows/R-CMD-check/badge.svg)](https://github.com/UCD-SERG/serocalculator/actions)
<!-- badges: end -->


Antibody levels measured in a cross–sectional population sample can be translated into an estimate of the frequency with which seroconversions (infections) occur in the sampled population. In other words, the presence of many high antibody titers indicates that many individuals likely experienced infection recently and the burden of disease is high in the population, while low titers indicate a low frequency of infections in the sampled population and therefore a lower burden of disease.

The **serocalculator** package was designed to use the longitudinal response characteristics using a set of modeled parameters characterizing the longitudinal response of the selected serum antibodies. Calculating seroincidence estimates using the package requires three inputs: 1) a population-based cross-sectional dataset, 2) the longitudinal antibody response parameters, and 3) parameters for biologic and measurement noise. This is explained in more detail in the [Enteric Fever Example vignette](https://ucd-serg.github.io/serocalculator/articles/enteric_fever_example.html).


## Installing R

The **serocalculator** package is written in R, a free, open-source software program. The end user of this package must have access to a working installation of the R software. We recommend installing [base R](https://cran.r-project.org/) and a Graphical User Interfaces (GUI) for R such as [RStudio](https://posit.co/products/open-source/rstudio/).

If you need to download and install R and/or RStudio, we recommend following the tutorial below from *Hands On Programming in R* by Garrett Grolemund:

**Installing R and RStudio**: https://rstudio-education.github.io/hopr/starting.html

## Installing the Serocalculator Package

The **serocalculator** package must be installed in R before first use. As of February 27, 2024, **serocalculator** is still in development. To install the development version, you must install the **devtools** R package and then download **serocalculator** from [GitHub](https://github.com/). Enter the code below into the R console to install both packages:


```r{eval=FALSE}
# Install the devtools package and the development version of serocalculator
install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("ucd-serg/serocalculator")
```

Once released on CRAN, users will be able to install **serocalculator** using `install.packages()`. 


```r {eval=FALSE}
#Install serocalculator
install.packages("serocalculator")
```


### Post-installation

Successful installation can be confirmed by loading the package into the RStudio workspace and exploring help files and manuals distributed with the package:

```r{eval=FALSE}
# Load package "seroincidence".
library(serocalculator)

# Show R help for the package.
?serocalculator
```

Additionally, most package details can be found when executing the following commands:

```r{eval=FALSE}
# Show description.
packageDescription("serocalculator")

# Show citation.
citation("serocalculator")
```

### A Note for Windows Users

Windows users will need to install Rtools, which contains a collection of tools for building and employing R packages that are still in development. This can be done either during the  *devtools* package installation, or independently if *devtools* is already installed. 


#### During devtools installation:

When prompted to install additional build tools, select "Yes" and Rtools will be installed. 

![Click Yes to install Rtools along with the *devtools* package][id]

[id]: man/figures/Rtools1.png

#### Independently:

1. Download Rtools from https://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/Rtools/
2. Run the installer

    * During the Rtools installation you may see a window asking you to “Select Additional Tasks”.
    * Do **not** select the box for “Edit the system PATH”. devtools and RStudio should put Rtools on the PATH automatically when it is needed.
    * **Do** select the box for “Save version information to registry”. It should be selected by default.

## Getting Help

If you need assistance or encounter a clear bug, please file an issue with a minimal reproducible example on [GitHub](https://github.com/UCD-SERG/serocalculator/issues). 

Another great resource is **The Epidemiologist R Handbook**, which includes an introductory page on asking for help with R packages via GitHub: https://epirhandbook.com/en/getting-help.html
